# QSharpCheck
QSharpCheck is a property-based testing framework for Q# programs
Testing quantum systems is difficult due to their unpredictable complex nature as well as the probabilistic essence of qubit measurement. When proposing testing frameworks for quantum systems, it is not neccessarily about verifying what is happening inside a quantum system but about checking whether the system performs what it is expected to deliver. In other words, we validate the system by regarding it as a black box and taking care of the ultimate result. We can therefore describe some of the system's properties based on its outcome. We mean the properties which are called observable. An observable is a measurable quantity that can be calculated to describe a particle's quantum state.
Among the testing techniques, property-based testing has been very successful. In property-based testing the basic principle is to approve the system's predicted behaviour (property) against a set of random inputs. The testers think thoroughly about the properties of a program and define them. Ultimately, they exploit a generative-testing library (like QuickCheck in Haskell and Scalacheck in Scala) to randomise inputs to validate the defined properties. Generally, it is challenging to think about and write the properties of a program. Moreover, the concept of quantum programming differs from current programming concepts, thus thinking about quantum properties is more demanding. Notwithstanding, exercising the system properties produces very efficient results.
Hence, we have extended the concept of property-based testing to the quantum realm as well and we introduce QSharpCheck as a property-based testing framework for Q# programs. It is developed in C# language however, its concept can be applied to any other languages for testing the quantum programs. Since measuring qubits is one of the most common and essential steps in quantum programming, testing the validity of a qubit measurement is of the utmost importance. In QSharpCheck this validation is achieved. 
